[music]
>> Hi. Welcome to another video. So,
Hermes Agent has just received its
V0.9.0
release on April 13th, 2026. And if you
ask me, this is one of the biggest
updates the project has had so far.
If you watched my earlier Hermes videos,
then you already know I like the project
before this. But V0.9 makes it feel much
broader and much more polished. And I do
not mean that in the usual open-source
release note way, where there are 200
little fixes and one flashy headline.
This one actually changes how and where
you can use Hermes.
Because Hermes was already interesting
as an open-source agent that could run
across different platforms and
providers.
But with V0.9, it feels like they are
trying to turn it into a much more
complete ecosystem.
You now get a local web dashboard,
native Android support through Termux,
iMessage support, WeChat support, fast
mode for OpenAI and Anthropic, better
background process monitoring, backup
and restore, more provider options, and
a really serious security hardening pass
on top of all that. So, this is not a
small update at all. Now, the first
thing I want to talk about is probably
the most important feature for new
users, and that is the local web
dashboard. This is honestly a huge deal.
One of the biggest problems with agent
tools, especially open-source ones, is
that setup and management can become
annoying very quickly.
You have config files, environment
variables, skills, session state,
provider settings, gateway settings, and
a bunch of other moving parts. If you
are comfortable in the terminal, that is
fine. But for many people, that friction
is exactly what stops them from actually
sticking with a tool. Hermes now has a
local browser-based dashboard where you
can manage settings, monitor sessions,
browse skills, and manage the gateway
without living inside config files all
day.
That makes Hermes much easier to
recommend, because now it is not just
for the people who enjoy spending half
their life editing YAML.
It becomes much more approachable.
And the nice thing is that this is a
local dashboard, not some forced cloud
control panel. So, you still keep that
open-source and self-hosted feeling,
which is exactly what many of you
watching this channel would want.
Now, the second major thing is Termux
and Android support. And this is kind of
awesome.
Hermes can now run natively on Android
through Termux, with install paths
adapted for mobile, TUI optimizations
for smaller screens, voice backend
support, and even the slash image
command working on device.
That is actually pretty wild if you
think about it.
Because a lot of so-called agent
products still struggle to feel polished
even on desktop.
Hermes is now pushing into mobile in a
much more serious way, and that gives
you a proper portable open-source agent
setup, instead of only relying on some
lockdown web app or proprietary mobile
app. If you are the kind of person who
likes running stuff locally, and you
want something you can experiment with
from a phone or tablet, too, this is
really good. Now, would I personally
choose Android as my main coding
environment?
Probably not. But for monitoring tasks,
quick commands, checking sessions,
messaging-based workflows, or just
having your agent available everywhere,
this is super useful.
And that is really the theme of this
release. Hermes is becoming available
everywhere. In fact, the release notes
say Hermes now supports 16 platforms out
of the box, and that includes Telegram,
Discord, Slack, WhatsApp, Signal,
Matrix, email, SMS, DingTalk, Feishu,
WeCom, Mattermost, Home Assistant,
webhooks, and now also iMessage through
BlueBubbles plus WeChat support. That is
honestly pretty insane. Now, let me come
to the messaging integrations, because
this is another area where Hermes is
clearly trying to differentiate itself.
The iMessage support comes through
BlueBubbles, and that means Hermes can
now plug into Apple's messaging world.
They also added setup wizard integration
and crash resilience around that flow.
Then there is WeChat and WeCom callback
mode support, which is also very
important, because many open-source
tools completely ignore the Chinese
messaging ecosystem. Hermes clearly is
not doing that. So, if you need an agent
that can live where your actual
communications already happen, Hermes is
becoming one of the more flexible
options, for sure.
Now, let's talk about fast mode, because
this is one of the flashiest updates in
the release.
Hermes now has a slash fast mode that
routes OpenAI and Anthropic models
through priority or fast queues for
lower latency on supported models like
GPT-5.4, Codex, and Claude. This is
great if speed matters a lot in your
workflow.
Maybe you're doing many quick agent
turns. Maybe you're using Hermes inside
a messaging interface. Maybe you're
bouncing between models, and you do not
want to wait forever on each step. In
those cases, lower latency feels
amazing. But I also want to be practical
here.
This is not really the budget path.
If your whole goal is to keep costs as
low as possible, then the local route
and the cheaper or free provider routes
will still be more appealing.
Fast mode is basically the convenience
and speed route for people already using
OpenAI or Anthropic in a more serious
way.
So, I like that it exists, but I would
not frame it as the main reason to use
Hermes if you are budget-conscious.
The dashboard and the platform expansion
are bigger stories, in my opinion. Now,
another feature I really like is the new
background process monitoring with watch
patterns. This is super practical.
Instead of just kicking off a background
task, and then awkwardly checking back
later, Hermes can now watch the output
of that process for patterns, and notify
you in real time when something
important shows up. For example, if a
server starts listening on a port, if a
build fails, if a log prints a specific
success line, or if some error text
appears, Hermes can react without you
manually pulling everything over and
over again.
That is exactly the sort of capability
that makes agents feel more like actual
assistants, and less like fancy
autocomplete with extra steps. And if
you combine that with Hermes now being
available through more messaging
platforms, it becomes even more useful.
You can imagine long-running work
happening somewhere, and Hermes simply
notifies you when the right event
appears. That is great. Now, there's
also a pluggable context engine in this
release, and this is one of those
features that advanced users are going
to love. Hermes now lets context
management work as a pluggable slot
through Hermes plugins. So, in
principle, you can swap in custom logic
for filtering, summarization, or
domain-specific context injection. This
is pretty amazing, because context
handling is one of the biggest hidden
problems in agent workflows. What the
model sees on each turn changes
everything.
If the context is noisy, the agent gets
sloppy. If the context is too
compressed, the agent misses important
details. If the context is
domain-specific, and you can inject the
right information at the right time, the
entire system becomes much better. So,
for normal users, this may not be the
headline feature. But for power users,
teams, and people building specialized
workflows, this is a really strong
architectural addition. Now, another
thing worth mentioning is provider
expansion. Hermes V2.9 adds native XAI
support for Grok and native Xiaomi MiMO
provider support as first-class options,
plus QNOAuth improvements.
This matters, because provider
flexibility is one of the things Hermes
already did well, and now it is doing
even more of it. If you do not want to
be locked into one API ecosystem, that
is good.
If you want to compare different
providers, that is good. If you want
fallback behavior when one provider is
unreliable, that is also good. And
Hermes also improved structured API
error classification, fallback handling,
and model switching behavior around
variants, which should make real-world
usage smoother. So, there's a lot of
practical work here, not just
surface-level feature marketing.
Now, let me talk about security, because
this is honestly one of the most
important parts of the release, even if
it is not the flashy YouTube thumbnail
feature.
The release notes specifically call this
the deepest security hardening pass yet,
and they mention fixes around path
traversal protection, shell injection
neutralization and sandbox rights, SSRF
redirect guards for Slack image uploads,
Twilio webhook signature validation, API
server auth enforcement, Git argument
injection prevention, and approval
button authorization. That is serious
stuff, and it is exactly the sort of
work I like to see in agent tools.
Because once you start giving an AI tool
access to commands, integrations,
webhooks, files, and messaging
platforms, security is not optional
anymore. A lot of people get distracted
by benchmark numbers and model hype, but
a tool like Hermes lives or dies on
whether it is trustworthy enough to use
in real workflows. So, this hardening
pass is a really big positive, in my
opinion.
There are also some other nice quality
of life additions here. You now get
Hermes backup and Hermes import, which
means you can back up your
configuration, sessions, skills, and
memory, and then restore or migrate them
later.
That is a great feature, because agent
setups can become messy, and if you
finally get everything tuned the way you
like, you do not want to lose it all
when you move machines or try something
risky. There's also a new debug toolkit
with slash debug and Hermes debug share,
which should make troubleshooting much
easier, and that matters, because
powerful open-source tools are great,
but if debugging them is miserable, many
people just give up. Now, overall, what
is my take on Hermes Agent V0.9?
Oh, I think this is a really strong
release, not because of one single
feature,
but because it improves Hermes across
usability, portability, architecture,
integrations, and security all at once.
The local dashboard makes Hermes easier
to adopt.
Android and Termux make Hermes more
portable. iMessage and WeChat make
Hermes available in more real-world
communication channels. Fast mode
improves the experience for people who
care about latency on OpenAI and
Anthropic.
Background monitoring makes long-running
tasks much more practical.
The pluggable context engine opens the
door to much smarter workflows. Provider
support keeps expanding. And the
security hardening makes the whole thing
feel much more mature.
If I had to summarize the release in one
sentence, I would say this.
Hermes V0.9 is the release where the
project starts feeling less like a cool
agent experiment, and more like a
serious cross-platform agent system.
Now, is everything perfect? Obviously
not. Hermes is still a powerful tool,
which means there will still be setup
complexity, and some of these features
will mainly benefit advanced users more
than casual users. Also, the fastest and
fanciest workflows, especially around
OpenAI and Anthropic, are probably not
going to be the cheapest route, which
many people may not want.
But the good thing is that Hermes is not
forcing you into only one path. You can
lean more local. You can lean more
open-source. You can lean more messaging
first. You can lean more speed first.
And that flexibility is exactly why I
think Hermes is becoming more
compelling. So, yes, I like this release
a lot. Overall, it's pretty cool.
Anyway, let me know your thoughts in the
comments. If you like this video,
consider donating [music] through the
Super Thanks option or becoming a member
by clicking the join button. Also, give
this [music] video a thumbs up and
subscribe to my channel. I'll see you in
the next one. Until then, bye.
>> [bell]
[music]